README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit README.Rmd -->

# concorR

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.com/sfwolfphys/concorR.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/sfwolfphys/concorR)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of concorR is to implement the CONCOR (CONvergence of iterated
CORrelations) algorithm for positional analysis. Positional analysis
divides a network into blocks based on the similarity of links between
actors. CONCOR uses structural equivalence—“same ties to same others”—as
its criterion for grouping nodes, and calculates this by correlating
columns in the adjacency matrix. For more details on CONCOR, see the
original description by Breiger, Boorman, and Arabie (1975), or Chapter
9 in Wasserman and Faust (1994).

## Installation

You can install the released version of concorR from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("concorR")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("sfwolfphys/concorR")
```

## Example

This is a basic example which shows a common task: using CONCOR to
partition a single adjacency matrix.

``` r
library(concorR)

a <- matrix(c(0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 
               1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0), ncol = 5)
rownames(a) <- letters[1:5]
colnames(a) <- letters[1:5]
concor(list(a))
#>   block vertex
#> 1     1      b
#> 2     1      c
#> 3     1      d
#> 4     2      a
#> 5     2      e
```

Additional helper functions are included for using the `igraph` package:

``` r
library(igraph)
#> 
#> Attaching package: 'igraph'
#> The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
#> 
#>     decompose, spectrum
#> The following object is masked from 'package:base':
#> 
#>     union

plot(graph_from_adjacency_matrix(a))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
glist <- concor_make_igraph(list(a))

plot(glist[[1]], vertex.color = V(glist[[1]])$csplit1)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-2.png" width="100%" />

The *blockmodel* shows the permuted adjacency matrix, rearranged to
group nodes by CONCOR partition.

``` r
bm <- make_blk(list(a), 1)[[1]]
plot_blk(bm, labels = TRUE)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-blockplot-1.png" width="100%" />

The *reduced matrix* represents each position as a node, and calculates
links by applying a density threshold to the ties between (and within)
positions.

``` r
(r_mat <- make_reduced(list(a), nsplit = 1))
#> $reduced_mat
#> $reduced_mat[[1]]
#>         Block 1 Block 2
#> Block 1       1       0
#> Block 2       1       1
#> 
#> 
#> $dens
#> [1] 0.6
r_igraph <- make_reduced_igraph(r_mat$reduced_mat[[1]])

plot_reduced(r_igraph)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-reducedplot-1.png" width="100%" />

### Connection criteria for making the reduced network

In the prior example, the reduced network was created using an edge
density threshold. For some applications, it may be preferred to use a
degree-based measure instead. If we define
![M](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?M "M") to be the adjacency
matrix, define the sub-adjacency matrix
![X\_{ij}](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?X_%7Bij%7D "X_{ij}") as
follows:

  
![&#10;X\_{ij} = M\[(\\text{elements in block i}), (\\text{elements in
block
j})\]&#10;](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?%0AX_%7Bij%7D%20%3D%20M%5B%28%5Ctext%7Belements%20in%20block%20i%7D%29%2C%20%28%5Ctext%7Belements%20in%20block%20j%7D%29%5D%0A
"
X_{ij} = M[(\\text{elements in block i}), (\\text{elements in block j})]
")  

We’d like to use a simple criterion to determine whether to draw an edge
or not, we will use the normalized degree for this purpose:

  
![&#10;\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(X\_{ij}))}{\\texttt{max
possible degree}(X\_{ij})} \>
\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(M))}{\\texttt{max possible
degree}(M)}&#10;](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?%0A%5Cfrac%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmean%7D%28%5Ctexttt%7Bdegree%7D%28X_%7Bij%7D%29%29%7D%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmax%20possible%20degree%7D%28X_%7Bij%7D%29%7D%20%3E%20%5Cfrac%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmean%7D%28%5Ctexttt%7Bdegree%7D%28M%29%29%7D%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmax%20possible%20degree%7D%28M%29%7D%0A
"
\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(X_{ij}))}{\\texttt{max possible degree}(X_{ij})} \> \\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(M))}{\\texttt{max possible degree}(M)}
")  
Note that for this definition, the sub-adjacency matrix will not be
square if there are different numbers of elements in each block.

To use this criteria, we have created an argument `stat`. The default to
this argument is `'density'`, which does the analysis in the previous
section. To use this criterion instead, use the option `'degree'`.

``` r
(r_mat_deg <- make_reduced(list(a), nsplit = 1, stat = 'degree'))
#> $reduced_mat
#> $reduced_mat[[1]]
#>         Block 1 Block 2
#> Block 1       1       0
#> Block 2       1       0
#> 
#> 
#> $deg
#> $deg[[1]]
#> [1] 0.6
r_deg_igraph <- make_reduced_igraph(r_mat_deg$reduced_mat[[1]])

plot_reduced(r_deg_igraph)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-reduced-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

## Example 2: A network with isolated members

Sometimes, there are isolated nodes in a network. The CONCOR algorithm
works with this network by creating a block for isolated members, and
then running the standard algorithm on the network with the isolated
members removed. Therefore the number of blocks will be `2^nsplit + 1`
blocks in that event. Consider this example:

``` r
isoA = matrix(c(0,1,1,1,1,0,
                1,0,1,1,1,0,
                1,1,0,1,1,0,
                0,0,0,0,1,0,
                0,0,0,1,0,0,
                0,0,0,0,0,0),
              nrow=6,byrow=TRUE)
rownames(isoA) = LETTERS[1:6]
colnames(isoA) = LETTERS[1:6]
concor(list(isoA),nsplit=1)
#>   block vertex
#> 1     1      D
#> 2     1      E
#> 3     2      A
#> 4     2      B
#> 5     2      C
#> 6     3      F
```

This network looks like this:

``` r
plot(graph_from_adjacency_matrix(isoA))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

## With CONCOR block coloring
gISOlist <- concor_make_igraph(list(isoA))
plot(gISOlist[[1]], vertex.color = V(gISOlist[[1]])$csplit1)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-2.png" width="100%" />

``` r
bm = make_blk(list(isoA),nsplit=1)[[1]]
plot_blk(bm, labels = TRUE)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-block-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
rmDen = make_reduced(list(isoA),nsplit=1,stat='density')
rmDeg = make_reduced(list(isoA),nsplit=1,stat='degree')

rmDen.g = make_reduced_igraph(rmDen$reduced_mat[[1]])
plot_reduced(rmDen.g)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-reduced-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

rmDeg.g = make_reduced_igraph(rmDeg$reduced_mat[[1]])
plot_reduced(rmDeg.g)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-reduced-2.png" width="100%" />

## Example 3: Krackhardt high-tech managers

CONCOR can use multiple adjacency matrices to partition nodes based on
all relations simultaneously. The package includes `igraph` data files
for the Krackhardt (1987) high-tech managers study, which gives networks
for advice, friendship, and reporting among 21 managers at a firm.
(These networks were used in the examples of Wasserman and Faust
(1994).)

First, take a look at the CONCOR partitions for two splits (four
positions), considering only the advice or only the friendship networks.

``` r
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(krack_advice)  # plot_socio imposes some often-useful plot parameters
plot_socio(krack_friend)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-single-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

m1 <- igraph::as_adjacency_matrix(krack_advice, sparse = FALSE)
m2 <- igraph::as_adjacency_matrix(krack_friend, sparse = FALSE)

g1 <- concor_make_igraph(list(m1), nsplit = 2)
g2 <- concor_make_igraph(list(m2), nsplit = 2)

gadv <- set_vertex_attr(krack_advice, "csplit2", value = V(g1[[1]])$csplit2)
gfrn <- set_vertex_attr(krack_friend, "csplit2", value = V(g2[[1]])$csplit2)

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(gadv, nsplit = 2)
plot_socio(gfrn, nsplit = 2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-single-2.png" width="100%" />

Next, compare with the multi-relation blocking:

``` r
gboth <- concor_make_igraph(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2)

gadv2 <- set_vertex_attr(krack_advice, "csplit2", value = V(gboth[[1]])$csplit2)
gfrn2 <- set_vertex_attr(krack_friend, "csplit2", value = V(gboth[[2]])$csplit2)

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(gadv2, nsplit = 2)
plot_socio(gfrn2, nsplit = 2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-multi-1.png" width="100%" />

Including information from both relations changes the block membership
of several nodes.

It also affects the reduced networks, as can be seen from comparing the
single-relation version:

``` r
red1 <- make_reduced(list(m1), nsplit = 2)
red2 <- make_reduced(list(m2), nsplit = 2)

gred1 <- make_reduced_igraph(red1$reduced_mat[[1]])
gred2 <- make_reduced_igraph(red2$reduced_mat[[1]])

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gred1)
plot_reduced(gred2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-single-1.png" width="100%" />

with the multi-relation version:

``` r
redboth <- make_reduced(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2)
gboth <- lapply(redboth$reduced_mat, make_reduced_igraph)
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gboth[[1]])
plot_reduced(gboth[[2]])
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-multi-1.png" width="100%" />

### Reduced networks using degree criterion

``` r
red1d <- make_reduced(list(m1), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')
red2d <- make_reduced(list(m2), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')

gred1d <- make_reduced_igraph(red1d$reduced_mat[[1]])
gred2d <- make_reduced_igraph(red2d$reduced_mat[[1]])

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gred1d)
plot_reduced(gred2d)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-single-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

with the multi-relation version:

``` r
redbothd <- make_reduced(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')
gbothd <- lapply(redbothd$reduced_mat, make_reduced_igraph)
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gbothd[[1]])
plot_reduced(gbothd[[2]])
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-multi-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by National Science Foundation awards
[DUE-1712341](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1712341)
and
[DUE-1711017](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1711017).

## References

R. L. Breiger, S. A. Boorman, P. Arabie, An algorithm for clustering
relational data with applications to social network analysis and
comparison with multidimensional scaling. *J. of Mathematical
Psychology*. **12**, 328 (1975).
<http://doi.org/10.1016/0022-2496(75)90028-0>

D. Krackhardt, Cognitive social structures. *Social Networks*. **9**,
104 (1987). <http://doi.org/10.1016/0378-8733(87)90009-8>

S. Wasserman and K. Faust, *Social Network Analysis: Methods and
Applications* (Cambridge University Press, 1994).

Commit message:

Changed normalized degree to scaled degree since normalized degree is the same as edge density.

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit README.Rmd -->

# concorR

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.com/sfwolfphys/concorR.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/sfwolfphys/concorR)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of concorR is to implement the CONCOR (CONvergence of iterated
CORrelations) algorithm for positional analysis. Positional analysis
divides a network into blocks based on the similarity of links between
actors. CONCOR uses structural equivalence—“same ties to same others”—as
its criterion for grouping nodes, and calculates this by correlating
columns in the adjacency matrix. For more details on CONCOR, see the
original description by Breiger, Boorman, and Arabie (1975), or Chapter
9 in Wasserman and Faust (1994).

## Installation

You can install the released version of concorR from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("concorR")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("sfwolfphys/concorR")
```

## Example

This is a basic example which shows a common task: using CONCOR to
partition a single adjacency matrix.

``` r
library(concorR)
source('R/CONCOR_blockmodeling.R')

a <- matrix(c(0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 
               1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0), ncol = 5)
rownames(a) <- letters[1:5]
colnames(a) <- letters[1:5]
concor(list(a))
#>   block vertex
#> 1     1      b
#> 2     1      c
#> 3     1      d
#> 4     2      a
#> 5     2      e
```

Additional helper functions are included for using the `igraph` package:

``` r
library(igraph)
#> 
#> Attaching package: 'igraph'
#> The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
#> 
#>     decompose, spectrum
#> The following object is masked from 'package:base':
#> 
#>     union

plot(graph_from_adjacency_matrix(a))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
glist <- concor_make_igraph(list(a))

plot(glist[[1]], vertex.color = V(glist[[1]])$csplit1)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-2.png" width="100%" />

The *blockmodel* shows the permuted adjacency matrix, rearranged to
group nodes by CONCOR partition.

``` r
bm <- make_blk(list(a), 1)[[1]]
plot_blk(bm, labels = TRUE)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-blockplot-1.png" width="100%" />

The *reduced matrix* represents each position as a node, and calculates
links by applying a density threshold to the ties between (and within)
positions.

``` r
(r_mat <- make_reduced(list(a), nsplit = 1))
#> $reduced_mat
#> $reduced_mat[[1]]
#>         Block 1 Block 2
#> Block 1       1       0
#> Block 2       1       1
#> 
#> 
#> $dens
#> [1] 0.6
r_igraph <- make_reduced_igraph(r_mat$reduced_mat[[1]])

plot_reduced(r_igraph)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-reducedplot-1.png" width="100%" />

### Connection criteria for making the reduced network

In the prior example, the reduced network was created using an edge
density threshold. For some applications, it may be preferred to use a
degree-based measure instead. If we define
![M](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?M "M") to be the adjacency
matrix, define the sub-adjacency matrix
![X\_{ij}](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?X_%7Bij%7D "X_{ij}") as
follows:

  
![&#10;X\_{ij} = M\[(\\text{elements in block i}), (\\text{elements in
block
j})\]&#10;](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?%0AX_%7Bij%7D%20%3D%20M%5B%28%5Ctext%7Belements%20in%20block%20i%7D%29%2C%20%28%5Ctext%7Belements%20in%20block%20j%7D%29%5D%0A
"
X_{ij} = M[(\\text{elements in block i}), (\\text{elements in block j})]
")  

We’d like to use a simple criterion to determine whether to draw an edge
or not, we will use the scaled degree for this purpose. For our
definition, we will divide by the max *observed* degree.

  
![&#10;\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(X\_{ij}))}{\\texttt{max
observed degree}(X\_{ij})} \>
\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(M))}{\\texttt{max observed
degree}(M)}&#10;](https://latex.codecogs.com/png.latex?%0A%5Cfrac%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmean%7D%28%5Ctexttt%7Bdegree%7D%28X_%7Bij%7D%29%29%7D%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmax%20observed%20degree%7D%28X_%7Bij%7D%29%7D%20%3E%20%5Cfrac%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmean%7D%28%5Ctexttt%7Bdegree%7D%28M%29%29%7D%7B%5Ctexttt%7Bmax%20observed%20degree%7D%28M%29%7D%0A
"
\\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(X_{ij}))}{\\texttt{max observed degree}(X_{ij})} \> \\frac{\\texttt{mean}(\\texttt{degree}(M))}{\\texttt{max observed degree}(M)}
")  
Note that for this definition, the sub-adjacency matrix will not be
square if there are different numbers of elements in each block. Also,
while it is more common to use normalized degree, it is identical to
edge density, and therefore of no help to us here.

To use this criteria, we have created an argument `stat`. The default to
this argument is `'density'`, which does the analysis in the previous
section. To use this criterion instead, use the option `'degree'`.

``` r
(r_mat_deg <- make_reduced(list(a), nsplit = 1, stat = 'degree'))
#> $reduced_mat
#> $reduced_mat[[1]]
#>         Block 1 Block 2
#> Block 1       1       0
#> Block 2       1       1
#> 
#> 
#> $deg
#> $deg[[1]]
#> [1] 0.6
r_deg_igraph <- make_reduced_igraph(r_mat_deg$reduced_mat[[1]])

plot_reduced(r_deg_igraph)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-basic-reduced-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

## Example 2: A network with isolated members

Sometimes, there are isolated nodes in a network. The CONCOR algorithm
works with this network by creating a block for isolated members, and
then running the standard algorithm on the network with the isolated
members removed. Therefore the number of blocks will be `2^nsplit + 1`
blocks in that event. Consider this example:

``` r
isoA = matrix(c(0,1,1,1,1,0,
                1,0,1,1,1,0,
                1,1,0,1,1,0,
                0,0,0,0,1,0,
                0,0,0,1,0,0,
                0,0,0,0,0,0),
              nrow=6,byrow=TRUE)
rownames(isoA) = LETTERS[1:6]
colnames(isoA) = LETTERS[1:6]
concor(list(isoA),nsplit=1)
#>   block vertex
#> 1     1      D
#> 2     1      E
#> 3     2      A
#> 4     2      B
#> 5     2      C
#> 6     3      F
```

This network looks like this:

``` r
plot(graph_from_adjacency_matrix(isoA))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

## With CONCOR block coloring
gISOlist <- concor_make_igraph(list(isoA))
plot(gISOlist[[1]], vertex.color = V(gISOlist[[1]])$csplit1)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-2.png" width="100%" />

``` r
bm = make_blk(list(isoA),nsplit=1)[[1]]
plot_blk(bm, labels = TRUE)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-block-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r
rmDen = make_reduced(list(isoA),nsplit=1,stat='density')
rmDeg = make_reduced(list(isoA),nsplit=1,stat='degree')

rmDen.g = make_reduced_igraph(rmDen$reduced_mat[[1]])
plot_reduced(rmDen.g)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-reduced-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

rmDeg.g = make_reduced_igraph(rmDeg$reduced_mat[[1]])
plot_reduced(rmDeg.g)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example-iso-reduced-2.png" width="100%" />

## Example 3: Krackhardt high-tech managers

CONCOR can use multiple adjacency matrices to partition nodes based on
all relations simultaneously. The package includes `igraph` data files
for the Krackhardt (1987) high-tech managers study, which gives networks
for advice, friendship, and reporting among 21 managers at a firm.
(These networks were used in the examples of Wasserman and Faust
(1994).)

First, take a look at the CONCOR partitions for two splits (four
positions), considering only the advice or only the friendship networks.

``` r
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(krack_advice)  # plot_socio imposes some often-useful plot parameters
plot_socio(krack_friend)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-single-1.png" width="100%" />

``` r

m1 <- igraph::as_adjacency_matrix(krack_advice, sparse = FALSE)
m2 <- igraph::as_adjacency_matrix(krack_friend, sparse = FALSE)

g1 <- concor_make_igraph(list(m1), nsplit = 2)
g2 <- concor_make_igraph(list(m2), nsplit = 2)

gadv <- set_vertex_attr(krack_advice, "csplit2", value = V(g1[[1]])$csplit2)
gfrn <- set_vertex_attr(krack_friend, "csplit2", value = V(g2[[1]])$csplit2)

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(gadv, nsplit = 2)
plot_socio(gfrn, nsplit = 2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-single-2.png" width="100%" />

Next, compare with the multi-relation blocking:

``` r
gboth <- concor_make_igraph(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2)

gadv2 <- set_vertex_attr(krack_advice, "csplit2", value = V(gboth[[1]])$csplit2)
gfrn2 <- set_vertex_attr(krack_friend, "csplit2", value = V(gboth[[2]])$csplit2)

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_socio(gadv2, nsplit = 2)
plot_socio(gfrn2, nsplit = 2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-NW-multi-1.png" width="100%" />

Including information from both relations changes the block membership
of several nodes.

It also affects the reduced networks, as can be seen from comparing the
single-relation version:

``` r
red1 <- make_reduced(list(m1), nsplit = 2)
red2 <- make_reduced(list(m2), nsplit = 2)

gred1 <- make_reduced_igraph(red1$reduced_mat[[1]])
gred2 <- make_reduced_igraph(red2$reduced_mat[[1]])

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gred1)
plot_reduced(gred2)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-single-1.png" width="100%" />

with the multi-relation version:

``` r
redboth <- make_reduced(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2)
gboth <- lapply(redboth$reduced_mat, make_reduced_igraph)
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gboth[[1]])
plot_reduced(gboth[[2]])
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-multi-1.png" width="100%" />

### Reduced networks using degree criterion

``` r
red1d <- make_reduced(list(m1), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')
red2d <- make_reduced(list(m2), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')

gred1d <- make_reduced_igraph(red1d$reduced_mat[[1]])
gred2d <- make_reduced_igraph(red2d$reduced_mat[[1]])

par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gred1d)
plot_reduced(gred2d)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-single-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

with the multi-relation version:

``` r
redbothd <- make_reduced(list(m1, m2), nsplit = 2, stat='degree')
gbothd <- lapply(redbothd$reduced_mat, make_reduced_igraph)
par(mfrow = c(1, 2))
plot_reduced(gbothd[[1]])
plot_reduced(gbothd[[2]])
```

<img src="man/figures/README-krackhardt-reduced-multi-degree-1.png" width="100%" />

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by National Science Foundation awards
[DUE-1712341](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1712341)
and
[DUE-1711017](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1711017).

## References

R. L. Breiger, S. A. Boorman, P. Arabie, An algorithm for clustering
relational data with applications to social network analysis and
comparison with multidimensional scaling. *J. of Mathematical
Psychology*. **12**, 328 (1975).
<http://doi.org/10.1016/0022-2496(75)90028-0>

D. Krackhardt, Cognitive social structures. *Social Networks*. **9**,
104 (1987). <http://doi.org/10.1016/0378-8733(87)90009-8>

S. Wasserman and K. Faust, *Social Network Analysis: Methods and
Applications* (Cambridge University Press, 1994).
